Xet Docs for huggingface_hub (#2899)
huggingface/huggingface_hub: docs/source/en/guides/manage-cache.md

rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.
-->

# Understand caching

> `huggingface_hub` utilizes the local disk as two caches, which avoid re-downloading items again. The first cache is a file-based cache, which caches individual files downloaded from the Hub and ensures that the same file is not downloaded again, even if multiple repos or revisions use that file. The second cache is a chunk cache, where each chunk represents a byte range from a file and ensures that chunks that are shared across files are only downloaded once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`huggingface_hub` utilizes the local disk as two caches, which avoid re-downloading items again. The first cache is a file-based cache, which caches individual files downloaded from the Hub and ensures that the same file is not downloaded again when a repo gets updated. The second cache is a chunk cache, where each chunk represents a byte range from a file and ensures that chunks that are shared across files are only downloaded once.
```

@rajatarya important precision: the file-based cache do not deduplicate across repos.

                └── (...)
```

## Manage your file-based cache

### Scan your cache

At the moment, cached files are never deleted from your local directory: when you download
a new revision of a branch, previous files are kept in case you need them again.
Therefore it can be useful to scan your cache directory in order to know which repos
and revisions are taking the most disk space. `huggingface_hub` provides an helper to
do so that can be used via `huggingface-cli` or in a python script.

> #### Scan cache from the terminal

Reviewer: same for `#### Grep example` => `**Grep example**` in this section

Author: Converted all #### to **<HEADING>**

</Tip>

> #### Clean cache from the terminal

Reviewer: in this subsection, can you update 

```
#### Without TUI
```

to 

```
**Without TUI**
```
? i.e. highlight without making them a section in the TOC (otherwise I feel that it makes too many subsubparts). 

Same for `### Using the TUI`

Author: Converted all #### to **<HEADING>**

>>> delete_strategy.execute()
Cache deletion done. Saved 8.6G.
```

> ## Xet Cache

Reviewer 2: is this section at the right location in the page, @Wauplin?

Author: I'll follow Lucain's suggestion and then let's see how it looks/reads.

> To provide more efficient file transfers, `hf_xet` adds a `xet` directory to the existing `huggingface_hub` cache, creating additional caching layer to enable chunk-based deduplication. 

Author: I have addressed this in the latest version, please let me know if you think I should add more detail.

> To provide more efficient file transfers, `hf_xet` adds a `xet` directory to the existing `huggingaface_hub` cache, creating additional caching layer to enable chunk-based deduplication. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To provide more efficient file transfers, `hf_xet` adds a `xet` directory to the existing `huggingface_hub` cache, creating additional caching layer to enable chunk-based deduplication. 
```

The `xet` directory, located at `~/.cache/huggingface/xet` by default, contains two caches, utilized for uploads and downloads with the following structure

```bash
<CACHE_DIR>
├─ chunk_cache
├─ shard_cache
```

> The `xet` cache, like the rest of `hf_xet` is fully integrated with the `huggingface_hub`.  If you use the existing APIs for interacting with cached assets, there is no need to update your workflow. The `xet` cache is built as an optimization layer on top of the existing `hf_xet` chunk-based deduplication and `huggingface_hub` cache system. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `xet` cache, like the rest of `hf_xet` is fully integrated with `huggingface_hub`.  If you use the existing APIs for interacting with cached assets, there is no need to update your workflow. The `xet` cache is built as an optimization layer on top of the existing `hf_xet` chunk-based deduplication and `huggingface_hub` cache system. 
```

```sh
<CACHE_DIR>
├─ xet
│  ├─ shard_cache
│  │  ├─ 1fe4ffd5cf0c3375f1ef9aec5016cf773ccc5ca294293d3f92d92771dacfc15d.mdb
│  │  ├─ 906ee184dc1cd0615164a89ed64e8147b3fdccd1163d80d794c66814b3b09992.mdb
│  │  ├─ ceeeb7ea4cf6c0a8d395a2cf9c08871211fbbd17b9b5dc1005811845307e6b8f.mdb
│  │  ├─ e8535155b1b11ebd894c908e91a1e14e3461dddd1392695ddc90ae54a548d8b2.mdb
```

The `shard_cache` contains shards that are: 

- Locally generated and successfully uploaded to the CAS
- Downloaded from CAS as part of the global deduplication algorithm

Shards provide a mapping between files and chunks. During uploads, each file is chunked and the hash of the chunk is saved. Every shard in the cache is then consulted. If a shard contains a chunk hash that is present in the local file being uploaded, then that chunk can be discarded as it is already stored in CAS. 

All shards have an expiration date of 3-4 weeks from when they are downloaded. Shards that are expired are not loaded during upload and are deleted one week after expiration. 

### Limits and Limitations

> The `chunk_cache` is limited to 10GB in size while the `shard_cache` is technically without limits (in practice, the size and use of shards are such that limiting the cache is unnecessary). 

Author: It will be - I haven't gotten to finish that PR yet (I want to add some tests to ensure that setting to 0 will correctly disable the cache without side-effects) :)

Then I'll put up a small PR to add to the hf_hub docs here.

By design, both caches are without high-level APIs. These caches are used primarily to facilitate the reconstruction (download) or upload of a file. To interact with the assets themselves, it’s recommended that you use the [`huggingface_hub` cache system APIs](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/guides/manage-cache).

If you need to reclaim the space utilized by either cache or need to debug any potential cache-related issues, simply remove the `xet` cache entirely by running `rm -rf ~/<cache_dir>/xet` where `<cache_dir>` is the location of your Hugging Face cache, typically `~/.cache/huggingface` 

Example full `xet`cache directory tree:

```sh
<CACHE_DIR>
├─ xet
│  ├─ chunk_cache
│  │  ├─ LN

> │  │  │  ├─ L1GerURLUcISVivdseeoY1PnYifYkOaCCJ7V5Q9fjgxkZWZhdWx0

Reviewer 4: This is my fault (and perhaps no one but me will notice), but the chunk cache directory at the hash level should start with the same prefix as the directory above it: `LNGerURLUcISVivdseeoY1PnYifYkOaCCJ7V5Q9fjgxkZWZhdWx0` (note `LN` instead of `L1`)
